doc/apidoc.md, before:

# `Itr` class documentation
A generic iterator adaptor class inspired by Rust's Iterator trait, providing a composable API for
functional-style iteration and transformation over Python iterables.
## Public methods

### `__init__`

Initialize the Itr with an iterable.

Args:
    it (Iterable[T]): The iterable to wrap.



### `__iter__`

Implement the iter method of the Iterator protocol

### `__next__`

Implement the next method of the Iterator protocol

### `all`

Return True if all elements in the iterator satisfy the predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    bool: True if all elements satisfy the predicate, False otherwise.



### `any`

Return True if any element in the iterator satisfies the predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    bool: True if any element satisfies the predicate, False otherwise.



### `batched`


Groups the elements of the iterator into batches of size `n`.

Args:
    n (int): The size of each batch. Must be at least 1.

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[T, ...]]: An iterator yielding tuples of up to `n` elements from the original iterator.

Raises:
    ValueError: If `n` is less than 1.

Example:
    >>> list(Itr(range(7)).batched(3))
    [(0, 1, 2), (3, 4, 5), (6,)]


### `chain`

Chain this iterator with another iterable, yielding all items from self followed by all items from other.

Args:
    other (Iterable[U]): Another iterable to chain.

Returns:
    Itr[T | U]: A new iterator yielding items from both iterables.



### `collect`

Collect all remaining items from the iterator into a sequence (tuple by default).

Returns:
    tuple[T]: A list of all remaining items.



### `copy`

Splits the iterator at its *current state* into two independent iterators.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: A new Itr instance wrapping one copy of the original iterator.



### `count`

Count the number of remaining items in the iterator. NB Consumes the iterator.

Returns:
    int: The number of remaining items.



### `cycle`


Returns a new iterator that cycles indefinitely over the elements of the current iterator.

Yields:
    Itr[T]: An iterator that repeats the elements of the original iterator endlessly.

Example:
    >>> itr = Itr([1, 2, 3])
    >>> cycler = itr.cycle()
    >>> cycler.take(5).collect()
    (1, 2, 3, 1, 2)


### `enumerate`

Yield pairs of (index, item) for each item in the iterator, where index starts at 0 or the value provided

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[int, T]]: An iterator of (index, item) pairs.



### `filter`

Yield only items that satisfy the predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator of filtered items.



### `find`

Return the first item in the iterator that satisfies the predicate, or None if not found.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    T | None: The first matching item, or None.



### `flat_map`

Flatten an iterable and map the results. Each item must itself be iterable.

Args:
    mapper (Callable[[U], V]): A function mapping each item to an iterable.

Returns:
    Itr[V]: An iterator over the mapped and flattened items.



### `flatten`

Flatten one level of nesting in the iterator. Each item must itself be iterable.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: An iterator over the flattened items.



### `fold`

Reduce the iterator to a single value using a function and an initial value.

Args:
    init (U): The initial value.
    func (Callable[[U, T], U]): The function to combine values.

Returns:
    U: The final reduced value.



### `for_each`

Apply a function to each item in the iterator.

Args:
    func (Callable[[T], None]): The function to apply.



### `groupby`


Sort and then group an iterable by the supplied key function. Note the following differences from itertools:
- The iterable is pre-sorted because itertools.groupby only works correctly on sorted sequences
- The resulting groupby objects are realised into tuples

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[U, tuple[T,...]]]: An iterator over the keys and tuples of values



### `inspect`


Applies a function to each item in the iterator for side effects, yielding the original items unchanged.
Useful for debugging

Args:
    func (Callable[[T], None]): A function to apply to each item for side effects.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator yielding the original items after applying the function.

Example:
    >>> Itr([1, 2, 3]).inspect(print).collect()
    1
    2
    3
    (1, 2, 3)


### `interleave`


Interleaves elements from this iterator with elements from another iterator.
Stops when either iterator is exhausted.

Args:
    other (Itr[U]): Another iterator to interleave with.

Returns:
    Itr[T | U]: A new iterator yielding elements alternately from self and other.

Example:
    itr1 = Itr([1, 3, 5])
    itr2 = Itr([2, 4, 6])
    result = itr1.interleave(itr2)
    list(result)  # [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]


### `intersperse`


Yield items from the iterator, inserting the given item between each pair of items.

Args:
    item (U): The item to intersperse.

Returns:
    Itr[T | U]: An iterator with the item interspersed.



### `last`

Return the last item from the iterator. Do not use on an open-ended Iterable

Returns:
    T: The last item.



### `map`

Map each item in the iterator using the given function.

Args:
    mapper (Callable[[T], U]): The function to apply.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: An iterator of mapped items.



### `map_while`

Map each item in the iterator using the given function, while the predicate remains True.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an item and returns True to continue taking items, or False to stop.
    mapper (Callable[[T], U]): The function to apply.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: An iterator of mapped items.



### `max`


Return the maximum element from the iterator, optionally using a key function.

Args:
    key (Callable[[T], object] | None, optional): A function to extract a comparison key from each element. Defaults to None.

Returns:
    T: The maximum element in the iterator.

Raises:
    ValueError: If the iterator is empty.


### `min`


Return the minimum element from the iterator, optionally using a key function.

Args:
    key (Callable[[T], object] | None, optional): A function to extract a comparison key from each element. Defaults to None.

Returns:
    T: The minimum element in the iterator.

Raises:
    ValueError: If the iterator is empty.


### `next`

Return the next item from the iterator, if available. Otherwise raises StopIteration

Returns:
    T: The next item.



### `next_chunk`

Return a list of the next n items from the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The number of items to yield.

Returns:
    tuple[T, ...]: The next n items (or fewer if the iterator is exhausted).



### `nth`

Return the n-th item (1-based) from the iterator, or None if out of range.

Args:
    n (int): The index (1-based) of the item to return.

Returns:
    T | None: The n-th item, or None. NB nth(0) will return the same value as nth(1)



### `pairwise`

Returns an iterator that yields consecutive pairs of elements from the iterable.

Each item produced is a tuple containing two consecutive elements from the original iterable.
For example, given [1, 2, 3, 4], the `Itr` returned from this method yields (1, 2), (2, 3), (3, 4).

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[T, T]]: An iterator over consecutive pairs from the original iterable.



### `partition`


Splits the elements of the iterator into two separate iterators based on a predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an element and returns True or False.

Returns:
    tuple[Itr[T], Itr[T]]: A tuple containing two iterators:
        - The first iterator yields elements for which the predicate returns True.
        - The second iterator yields elements for which the predicate returns False.


### `peek`

Returns the next element in the sequence without advancing the iterator.

Returns:
    T: The next element in the sequence.

Note:
    This method creates a copy of the iterator to avoid modifying the original iterator's state.



### `position`


Returns the index of the first element in the iterable that satisfies the given predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an element and returns True if the element matches the condition.

Returns:
    int: The index of the first matching element.

Raises:
    StopIteration: If no element satisfies the predicate.


### `product`


Creates a new iterator over tuples of the combinations of self and the other iterator


### `reduce`

Reduce the iterator to a single value using a function.
Will raise StopIteration if the iterator is exhausted.

Args:
    func (Callable[[T, T], T]): The function to combine values.

Returns:
    T: The final reduced value.



### `repeat`


Returns a new iterator that repeats the elements of the current iterator `n` times.

Args:
    n (int): The number of times to repeat the elements.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator yielding the elements of the original iterator repeated `n` times.

Note:
    This implementation creates `n` independent iterators using `itertools.tee`, which may be inefficient for large `n` or large input iterators.


### `rev`

Return a reversed iterator over the remaining items (materializes the sequence).

Returns:
    Itr[T]: A reversed iterator.



### `rolling`


Rolling window (generalisation of pairwise)
Rather than copying the iterator multiple times, collect n, yield the sequence and incrementally drop/add


### `skip`

Skip the next n items in the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The number of items to skip.

Returns:
    Self: The iterator itself.



### `skip_while`

Skip items in the iterator as long as the predicate is true, returning self.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: The iterator itself after skipping items.



### `starmap`


Applies a function to the elements of the iterator, unpacking the elements as arguments.

Args:
    func (Callable[[T], U]): A function to apply to each element. Each element is expected to be an iterable of arguments for the function.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: A new iterator with the results of applying the function to each unpacked element.

Example:
    >>> itr = Itr([(1, 2), (3, 4)])
    >>> list(itr.starmap(lambda x, y: x + y))
    [3, 7]


### `step_by`

Yield every n-th item from the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The step size.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator yielding every n-th item.



### `take`

Return an iterator over the next n items from the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The number of items to take.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator over the next n items.



### `take_while`

Collects and returns items from the iterator as long as the given predicate is true.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an item and returns True to continue taking items, or False to stop.

Returns:
    Self: A new Itr instance containing the items taken while the predicate was true.



### `unzip`

Splits the iterator of pairs into two separate iterators, each containing the elements from one position of
the pairs.

Returns:
    tuple[Itr[U], Itr[V]]: A tuple containing two Itr instances. The first contains all first elements,
    and the second contains all second elements from the original iterator of pairs.

Note:
    This implementation does not materialize the entire iterator at once. It uses itertools.tee to split the iterator,
    and then maps over each to extract the respective elements.



### `zip`

Yield pairs of items from this iterator and another iterable.

Args:
    other (Iterable[U]): The other iterable.

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[T, U]]: An iterator of paired items.

Commit message:

add unique and value_counts

doc/apidoc.md, after:

# `Itr` class documentation
A generic iterator adaptor class inspired by Rust's Iterator trait, providing a composable API for
functional-style iteration and transformation over Python iterables.
## Public methods

### `__init__`

Initialize the Itr with an iterable.

Args:
    it (Iterable[T]): The iterable to wrap.



### `__iter__`

Implement the iter method of the Iterator protocol

### `__next__`

Implement the next method of the Iterator protocol

### `all`

Return True if all elements in the iterator satisfy the predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    bool: True if all elements satisfy the predicate, False otherwise.



### `any`

Return True if any element in the iterator satisfies the predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    bool: True if any element satisfies the predicate, False otherwise.



### `batched`


Groups the elements of the iterator into batches of size `n`.

Args:
    n (int): The size of each batch. Must be at least 1.

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[T, ...]]: An iterator yielding tuples of up to `n` elements from the original iterator.

Raises:
    ValueError: If `n` is less than 1.

Example:
    >>> list(Itr(range(7)).batched(3))
    [(0, 1, 2), (3, 4, 5), (6,)]


### `chain`

Chain this iterator with another iterable, yielding all items from self followed by all items from other.

Args:
    other (Iterable[U]): Another iterable to chain.

Returns:
    Itr[T | U]: A new iterator yielding items from both iterables.



### `collect`

Collect all remaining items from the iterator into a sequence (tuple by default).

Returns:
    tuple[T]: A list of all remaining items.



### `copy`

Splits the iterator at its *current state* into two independent iterators.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: A new Itr instance wrapping one copy of the original iterator.



### `count`

Count the number of remaining items in the iterator. NB Consumes the iterator.

Returns:
    int: The number of remaining items.



### `cycle`


Returns a new iterator that cycles indefinitely over the elements of the current iterator.

Yields:
    Itr[T]: An iterator that repeats the elements of the original iterator endlessly.

Example:
    >>> itr = Itr([1, 2, 3])
    >>> cycler = itr.cycle()
    >>> cycler.take(5).collect()
    (1, 2, 3, 1, 2)


### `enumerate`

Yield pairs of (index, item) for each item in the iterator, where index starts at 0 or the value provided

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[int, T]]: An iterator of (index, item) pairs.



### `filter`

Yield only items that satisfy the predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator of filtered items.



### `find`

Return the first item in the iterator that satisfies the predicate, or None if not found.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    T | None: The first matching item, or None.



### `flat_map`

Flatten an iterable and map the results. Each item must itself be iterable.

Args:
    mapper (Callable[[U], V]): A function mapping each item to an iterable.

Returns:
    Itr[V]: An iterator over the mapped and flattened items.



### `flatten`

Flatten one level of nesting in the iterator. Each item must itself be iterable.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: An iterator over the flattened items.



### `fold`

Reduce the iterator to a single value using a function and an initial value.

Args:
    init (U): The initial value.
    func (Callable[[U, T], U]): The function to combine values.

Returns:
    U: The final reduced value.



### `for_each`

Apply a function to each item in the iterator.

Args:
    func (Callable[[T], None]): The function to apply.



### `groupby`


Sort and then group an iterable by the supplied key function. Note the following differences from itertools:
- The iterable is pre-sorted because itertools.groupby only works correctly on sorted sequences
- The resulting groupby objects are realised into tuples

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[U, tuple[T,...]]]: An iterator over the keys and tuples of values



### `inspect`


Applies a function to each item in the iterator for side effects, yielding the original items unchanged.
Useful for debugging

Args:
    func (Callable[[T], None]): A function to apply to each item for side effects.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator yielding the original items after applying the function.

Example:
    >>> Itr([1, 2, 3]).inspect(print).collect()
    1
    2
    3
    (1, 2, 3)


### `interleave`


Interleaves elements from this iterator with elements from another iterator.
Stops when either iterator is exhausted.

Args:
    other (Itr[U]): Another iterator to interleave with.

Returns:
    Itr[T | U]: A new iterator yielding elements alternately from self and other.

Example:
    itr1 = Itr([1, 3, 5])
    itr2 = Itr([2, 4, 6])
    result = itr1.interleave(itr2)
    list(result)  # [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]


### `intersperse`


Yield items from the iterator, inserting the given item between each pair of items.

Args:
    item (U): The item to intersperse.

Returns:
    Itr[T | U]: An iterator with the item interspersed.



### `last`

Return the last item from the iterator. Do not use on an open-ended Iterable

Returns:
    T: The last item.



### `map`

Map each item in the iterator using the given function.

Args:
    mapper (Callable[[T], U]): The function to apply.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: An iterator of mapped items.



### `map_while`

Map each item in the iterator using the given function, while the predicate remains True.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an item and returns True to continue taking items, or False to stop.
    mapper (Callable[[T], U]): The function to apply.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: An iterator of mapped items.



### `max`


Return the maximum element from the iterator, optionally using a key function.

Args:
    key (Callable[[T], object] | None, optional): A function to extract a comparison key from each element. Defaults to None.

Returns:
    T: The maximum element in the iterator.

Raises:
    ValueError: If the iterator is empty.


### `min`


Return the minimum element from the iterator, optionally using a key function.

Args:
    key (Callable[[T], object] | None, optional): A function to extract a comparison key from each element. Defaults to None.

Returns:
    T: The minimum element in the iterator.

Raises:
    ValueError: If the iterator is empty.


### `next`

Return the next item from the iterator, if available. Otherwise raises StopIteration

Returns:
    T: The next item.



### `next_chunk`

Return a list of the next n items from the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The number of items to yield.

Returns:
    tuple[T, ...]: The next n items (or fewer if the iterator is exhausted).



### `nth`

Return the n-th item (1-based) from the iterator, or None if out of range.

Args:
    n (int): The index (1-based) of the item to return.

Returns:
    T | None: The n-th item, or None. NB nth(0) will return the same value as nth(1)



### `pairwise`

Returns an iterator that yields consecutive pairs of elements from the iterable.

Each item produced is a tuple containing two consecutive elements from the original iterable.
For example, given [1, 2, 3, 4], the `Itr` returned from this method yields (1, 2), (2, 3), (3, 4).

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[T, T]]: An iterator over consecutive pairs from the original iterable.



### `partition`


Splits the elements of the iterator into two separate iterators based on a predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an element and returns True or False.

Returns:
    tuple[Itr[T], Itr[T]]: A tuple containing two iterators:
        - The first iterator yields elements for which the predicate returns True.
        - The second iterator yields elements for which the predicate returns False.


### `peek`

Returns the next element in the sequence without advancing the iterator.

Returns:
    T: The next element in the sequence.

Note:
    This method creates a copy of the iterator to avoid modifying the original iterator's state.



### `position`


Returns the index of the first element in the iterable that satisfies the given predicate.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an element and returns True if the element matches the condition.

Returns:
    int: The index of the first matching element.

Raises:
    StopIteration: If no element satisfies the predicate.


### `product`


Creates a new iterator over tuples of the combinations of self and the other iterator


### `reduce`

Reduce the iterator to a single value using a function.
Will raise StopIteration if the iterator is exhausted.

Args:
    func (Callable[[T, T], T]): The function to combine values.

Returns:
    T: The final reduced value.



### `repeat`


Returns a new iterator that repeats the elements of the current iterator `n` times.

Args:
    n (int): The number of times to repeat the elements.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator yielding the elements of the original iterator repeated `n` times.

Note:
    This implementation creates `n` independent iterators using `itertools.tee`, which may be inefficient for large `n` or large input iterators.


### `rev`

Return a reversed iterator over the remaining items (materializes the sequence).

Returns:
    Itr[T]: A reversed iterator.



### `rolling`


Rolling window (generalisation of pairwise)
Rather than copying the iterator multiple times, collect n, yield the sequence and incrementally drop/add


### `skip`

Skip the next n items in the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The number of items to skip.

Returns:
    Self: The iterator itself.



### `skip_while`

Skip items in the iterator as long as the predicate is true, returning self.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function to test each element.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: The iterator itself after skipping items.



### `starmap`


Applies a function to the elements of the iterator, unpacking the elements as arguments.

Args:
    func (Callable[[T], U]): A function to apply to each element. Each element is expected to be an iterable of arguments for the function.

Returns:
    Itr[U]: A new iterator with the results of applying the function to each unpacked element.

Example:
    >>> itr = Itr([(1, 2), (3, 4)])
    >>> list(itr.starmap(lambda x, y: x + y))
    [3, 7]


### `step_by`

Yield every n-th item from the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The step size.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator yielding every n-th item.



### `take`

Return an iterator over the next n items from the iterator.

Args:
    n (int): The number of items to take.

Returns:
    Itr[T]: An iterator over the next n items.



### `take_while`

Collects and returns items from the iterator as long as the given predicate is true.

Args:
    predicate (Callable[[T], bool]): A function that takes an item and returns True to continue taking items, or False to stop.

Returns:
    Self: A new Itr instance containing the items taken while the predicate was true.



### `unique`


Returns a tuple containing the unique elements from the iterator.

Iterates over the elements in the internal iterator, collecting each unique value,
and returns them as a tuple. The order of elements in the returned tuple is not guaranteed.

Do not use on an infinite iterator

Returns:
    tuple[T, ...]: A tuple of unique elements from the iterator.


### `unzip`

Splits the iterator of pairs into two separate iterators, each containing the elements from one position of
the pairs.

Returns:
    tuple[Itr[U], Itr[V]]: A tuple containing two Itr instances. The first contains all first elements,
    and the second contains all second elements from the original iterator of pairs.

Note:
    This implementation does not materialize the entire iterator at once. It uses itertools.tee to split the iterator,
    and then maps over each to extract the respective elements.



### `value_counts`


Returns a dictionary mapping each unique element in the iterator to the number of times it appears.

Do not use on an infinite iterator

Returns:
    dict[T, int]: A dictionary where the keys are unique elements from the iterator and the values are their respective counts.


### `zip`

Yield pairs of items from this iterator and another iterable.

Args:
    other (Iterable[U]): The other iterable.

Returns:
    Itr[tuple[T, U]]: An iterator of paired items.
